# WordPress-Site-on-AWS
I started by creating a VPC and defining the IPv4 CIDR, which I set as 10.0.0.0/16. Then, I created six different subnets in two different availability zones. Three were in eu-north-1a, and the other three were in eu-north-1b. Two subnets were Public, with a CIDR of 10.0.0.0/24 - 10.0.1.0/24, and the other four were private, with a CIDR of 10.0.2.0/24 - 10.0.5.0/24.

I then attached an Internet Gateway to the VPC to give it access to the Internet. I then created a Public Route Table to connect the public subnets to the Internet. I also created two different Private Route Tables for the private subnets in the different availability zones so that traffic can be routed accordingly. Then, I created two NAT Gateways attached those to the two public subnets and routed them to give restricted Internet access to the private subnets.

Then, I started making the security groups for the different resources used in those subnets. I started by creating an Auto Load Balancer Security Group, which allowed traffic from ports 80 and 443 from anywhere. Then, I created an SSH Security Group, which would be used for SSHing into the VPC, and it only allows traffic from port 22 and my IP Address. After, I created a Webserver Security Group, allowing traffic from ports 80, 443, and 22 and the IP addresses from ALB and SSH Security Groups. I made another security group for Database Security Group, which allowed traffic from port 3306 and IP addresses from the Webserver Security Group. The last security group I made was the EFS Security Group, which allowed traffic from ports 2049 and 22, and IP addresses from the webserver and SSH Security Group. All these security groups are made for specific resources to control the inbound traffic and only allow desired access to the resources to ensure there are no security incidents.

After I created two different EC2 instances, one in two of the private subnets in two different availability zones. I attached the relevant security groups so that only the desired traffic can access the instance. I also made sure not to give them public IP addresses to again make sure no unauthorised access is made. Also, new key pairs were created to add an extra layer of security.

Then, I had to make a Bastion Host instance to connect to the webservers; since they don't have public IP addresses, you have to use Bastion Host to access the web server and set up everything. The bastion host was set up in the Pub Subnet with the relevant security group to make SSH connections. After SSHing into the bastion host, I needed to connect to the web server; for that, I had to get the kep pair for the webserver into the bastion host and SSH from the bastion host into the web server; this would work since both are in the VPC and same IP range, this is another security measurement and layer, which would not allow any unauthorised access to the web server and gain access to the source code.

I moved on to creating an RDS (Relational Database Service) instance with the MYSQL engine. I auto-generated the database password to ensure it wasn't easy to guess for anyone. During the setup, I again applied the relevant security group to control the incoming and outgoing traffic for the RDS and added it to the relevant VPC and subnets. After setting up the RDS, I attached it to WordPress on the web server.

Then, I proceeded to create an EFS (Elastic File System). After making it, I had to assign mount targets so the EFS is in the two private subnets and assign the relevant security groups. After the setup, I had to attach the webserver so WordPress could use it.

I moved on to creating an Auto Load Balancer. I created the target group, added the two EC2 instances, set up the listeners and health check, and tested out the load balancer to ensure the target group was set up properly.

Lastly, I created the Auto 
